README.md, before:

# uef-lib

uef-lib is a Useful Erlang Functions Library. It can be used in OTP applications and contains some functions optimized for performance in specific cases (e.g. for file I/O operations or binary transformations).

## Modules

* **uef_bin** - for binaries.
* **uef_crypt** - some crypto functions.
* **uef_encode** - working with encodings.
* **uef_file** - working with files.
* **uef_format** - formatting numbers.
* **uef_lists** - lists transformations.
* **uef_num** - helpful functions for numbers.
* **uef_time** - date/time functions.

## Documentation

### Module `uef_bin`

---

#### *uef_bin:binary_join/2*

`uef_bin:binary_join(ListOfBinaries, Separator) -> Binary.`

Joins a list of binaries with separator into a single binary. Returns binary.

Example:

```erlang
> uef_bin:binary_join([<<"www">>, <<"example">>, <<"com">>], <<".">>).
<<"www.example.com">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:split/2*

`uef_bin:split(Binary, Splitter) -> ListOfBinaries.`

Splits binary (`Binary`) with splitter (`Splitter`) into a list of binaries. Works as [binary:split/2](http://erlang.org/doc/man/binary.html#split-2) but is more performant in simple cases.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:split(<<".www.example.com.">>, <<".">>).
[<<>>,<<"www">>,<<"example">>,<<"com">>,<<>>]

> uef_bin:split(<<"www.example.com">>, <<".">>).
[<<"www">>,<<"example">>,<<"com">>]

> uef_bin:split(<<"www.example.com">>, <<"A">>).
[<<"www.example.com">>]
```

---

#### *uef_bin:split/3*

`uef_bin:split(Binary, Splitter, 'trim_all') -> ListOfBinaries.`

Splits binary (`Binary`) with splitter (`Splitter`) into a list of binaries. Works as `uef_bin:split/2` but removes all epmty (`<<>>`) chunks. It can be used in simple cases instead of  [binary:split/3](http://erlang.org/doc/man/binary.html#split-3) for the reason that it's more performant.

Example:

```erlang
> uef_bin:split(<<"..www.example.com.">>, <<".">>, trim_all).
[<<"www">>,<<"example">>,<<"com">>]
```

---

#### *uef_bin:replace/3*

`uef_bin:replace(Binary1, Chars, OtherChars) -> Binary2.`

Replaces chars (`Chars`) with other chars (`OtherChars`) in a binary (`Binary1`) and returns another binary (`Binary2`). Works as [binary:replace/3](http://erlang.org/doc/man/binary.html#replace-3) but more permormant and can be used in simple cases.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:replace(<<"abcdefgbc">>, <<"bc">>, <<"ZZ">>).
<<"aZZdefgZZ">>

> uef_bin:replace(<<"abcdefgbc">>, <<"d">>, <<"ZZ">>).
<<"abcZZefgbc">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:replace_chars/3*

`uef_bin:replace_chars(Binary1, ListOfCharsToReplace, OtherChars) -> Binary2.`

Replaces chars inluded in list (`ListOfCharsToReplace`) with other chars (`OtherChars`) in a binary (`Binary1`) and returns another binary (`Binary2`).

Examples:

```erlang
uef_bin:replace_chars(<<"..www.example.com.">>, [<<".">>], <<>>).
<<"wwwexamplecom">>

uef_bin:replace_chars(<<"..www.example.com.">>, [<<".">>, <<"w">>], <<>>).
<<"examplecom">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:random_latin_binary/2*

`uef_bin:random_latin_binary(Length, CaseFlag) -> RandomLatinBinary.`

Generates and returns a binary of size `Length` which consists of latins [a-z], [A-Z] or [a-zA-Z]. The second argument `CaseFlag` corresponds to a letter case, an atom `'lower'`, `'upper'` or `'any'`.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:random_latin_binary(10, lower).
<<"n0ui89sfsb">>

> uef_bin:random_latin_binary(10, upper).
<<"S11Y3DHEJI">>

> uef_bin:random_latin_binary(10, any).
<<"mTa9Lj7KUN">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:random_binary_from_chars/2*

`uef_bin:random_binary_from_chars(Length, Chars) -> RandomCharsBinary.`

Generates and returns a binary of size `Length` which consists of the given characters `Chars`.

Example:

```erlang
> uef_bin:random_binary_from_chars(16, <<"ErlangForever">>).
<<"eFveerorreravgng">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:numeric_prefix/1*

`uef_bin:numeric_prefix(Binary) -> DigitsOnlyOrEmptyBinary.`

Returns new binary (`DigitsOnlyBinary`) which consists of digits [0-9] wich are at the beginning in the given binary (`Binary`). If `Binary` does not begin with digit, this function returns empty binary (`<<>>`).

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:numeric_prefix(<<"3456sld1knskjd">>).
<<"3456">>

> uef_bin:numeric_prefix(<<"ddd3456sld1knskjd">>).
<<>>
```

---

### Module `uef_crypt`

---

#### *uef_crypt:md5_hex/1*

`uef_crypt:md5_hex(IoData) -> Binary.`

Returns binary (`Binary`) in hexadecimal form of md5 hash of the argument `IoData`.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_crypt:md5_hex("abcd").
<<"e2fc714c4727ee9395f324cd2e7f331f">>

> uef_crypt:md5_hex(<<"привет"/utf8>>).
<<"608333adc72f545078ede3aad71bfe74">>

> uef_crypt:md5_hex(["how", ["is", ["it"]], "going", $?]).
<<"eb89df06495cef83e3ec185aefe81d0e">>
```

---

### Module `uef_encode`

---

#### *uef_encode:html_encode_bin/1*

`uef_encode:html_encode_bin(Html) -> EncodedBinary.`

Takes argument `Html`, replaces some unsafe symbols with their appropriate HTML entities and returns binary.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_encode:html_encode_bin("<>&©\n™").
<<"&lt;&gt;&amp;&copy;<br/>&trade;">>

> uef_encode:html_encode_bin("♦±Σ").
<<"&#9830;&plusmn;&Sigma;">>
```

---

#### *uef_encode:html_encode_list/1*

`uef_encode:html_encode_list(Html) -> EncodedList.`

Works as `uef_encode:html_encode_bin/1` but returns list of binaries.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_encode:html_encode_list("<>&©\n™").
[<<"&lt;">>,<<"&gt;">>,<<"&amp;">>,<<"&copy;">>,<<"<br/>">>,<<"&trade;">>]

> uef_encode:html_encode_list("♦±Σ").
[<<"&#9830;">>,<<"&plusmn;">>,<<"&Sigma;">>]
```

---

#### *uef_encode:win_to_utf8/1*

`uef_encode:win_to_utf8(Binary1251) -> BinaryUtf8.`

Converts cp1251 binary to utf-8 binary.

Example:

```erlang
file_1251_to_utf8() ->
    File1251 = "1251.txt",
    FileUtf8 = "utf8.txt",
    {ok, Bin1251} = file:read_file(File1251),
    BinUtf8 = uef_encode:win_to_utf8(Bin1251), %converting
    file:write_file(FileUtf8, BinUtf8).
```

---

### Module `uef_file`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_format`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_lists`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_num`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_time`

coming soon...

Commit message:

README: add uef_file module docs

README.md, after:

# uef-lib

uef-lib is a Useful Erlang Functions Library. It can be used in OTP applications and contains some functions optimized for performance in specific cases (e.g. for file I/O operations or binary transformations).

## Modules

* **uef_bin** - for binaries.
* **uef_crypt** - some crypto functions.
* **uef_encode** - working with encodings.
* **uef_file** - working with files.
* **uef_format** - formatting numbers.
* **uef_lists** - lists transformations.
* **uef_num** - helpful functions for numbers.
* **uef_time** - date/time functions.

## Documentation

### Module `uef_bin`

---

#### *uef_bin:binary_join/2*

`uef_bin:binary_join(ListOfBinaries, Separator) -> Binary.`

Joins a list of binaries with separator into a single binary. Returns binary.

Example:

```erlang
> uef_bin:binary_join([<<"www">>, <<"example">>, <<"com">>], <<".">>).
<<"www.example.com">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:split/2*

`uef_bin:split(Binary, Splitter) -> ListOfBinaries.`

Splits binary (`Binary`) with splitter (`Splitter`) into a list of binaries. Works as [binary:split/2](http://erlang.org/doc/man/binary.html#split-2) but is more performant in simple cases.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:split(<<".www.example.com.">>, <<".">>).
[<<>>,<<"www">>,<<"example">>,<<"com">>,<<>>]

> uef_bin:split(<<"www.example.com">>, <<".">>).
[<<"www">>,<<"example">>,<<"com">>]

> uef_bin:split(<<"www.example.com">>, <<"A">>).
[<<"www.example.com">>]
```

---

#### *uef_bin:split/3*

`uef_bin:split(Binary, Splitter, 'trim_all') -> ListOfBinaries.`

Splits binary (`Binary`) with splitter (`Splitter`) into a list of binaries. Works as `uef_bin:split/2` but removes all epmty (`<<>>`) chunks. It can be used in simple cases instead of  [binary:split/3](http://erlang.org/doc/man/binary.html#split-3) for the reason that it's more performant.

Example:

```erlang
> uef_bin:split(<<"..www.example.com.">>, <<".">>, trim_all).
[<<"www">>,<<"example">>,<<"com">>]
```

---

#### *uef_bin:replace/3*

`uef_bin:replace(Binary1, Chars, OtherChars) -> Binary2.`

Replaces chars (`Chars`) with other chars (`OtherChars`) in a binary (`Binary1`) and returns another binary (`Binary2`). Works as [binary:replace/3](http://erlang.org/doc/man/binary.html#replace-3) but more permormant and can be used in simple cases.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:replace(<<"abcdefgbc">>, <<"bc">>, <<"ZZ">>).
<<"aZZdefgZZ">>

> uef_bin:replace(<<"abcdefgbc">>, <<"d">>, <<"ZZ">>).
<<"abcZZefgbc">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:replace_chars/3*

`uef_bin:replace_chars(Binary1, ListOfCharsToReplace, OtherChars) -> Binary2.`

Replaces chars inluded in list (`ListOfCharsToReplace`) with other chars (`OtherChars`) in a binary (`Binary1`) and returns another binary (`Binary2`).

Examples:

```erlang
uef_bin:replace_chars(<<"..www.example.com.">>, [<<".">>], <<>>).
<<"wwwexamplecom">>

uef_bin:replace_chars(<<"..www.example.com.">>, [<<".">>, <<"w">>], <<>>).
<<"examplecom">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:random_latin_binary/2*

`uef_bin:random_latin_binary(Length, CaseFlag) -> RandomLatinBinary.`

Generates and returns a binary of size `Length` which consists of latins [a-z], [A-Z] or [a-zA-Z]. The second argument `CaseFlag` corresponds to a letter case, an atom `'lower'`, `'upper'` or `'any'`.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:random_latin_binary(10, lower).
<<"n0ui89sfsb">>

> uef_bin:random_latin_binary(10, upper).
<<"S11Y3DHEJI">>

> uef_bin:random_latin_binary(10, any).
<<"mTa9Lj7KUN">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:random_binary_from_chars/2*

`uef_bin:random_binary_from_chars(Length, Chars) -> RandomCharsBinary.`

Generates and returns a binary of size `Length` which consists of the given characters `Chars`.

Example:

```erlang
> uef_bin:random_binary_from_chars(16, <<"ErlangForever">>).
<<"eFveerorreravgng">>
```

---

#### *uef_bin:numeric_prefix/1*

`uef_bin:numeric_prefix(Binary) -> DigitsOnlyOrEmptyBinary.`

Returns new binary (`DigitsOnlyBinary`) which consists of digits [0-9] wich are at the beginning in the given binary (`Binary`). If `Binary` does not begin with digit, this function returns empty binary (`<<>>`).

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_bin:numeric_prefix(<<"3456sld1knskjd">>).
<<"3456">>

> uef_bin:numeric_prefix(<<"ddd3456sld1knskjd">>).
<<>>
```

---

### Module `uef_crypt`

---

#### *uef_crypt:md5_hex/1*

`uef_crypt:md5_hex(IoData) -> Binary.`

Returns binary (`Binary`) in hexadecimal form of md5 hash of the argument `IoData`.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_crypt:md5_hex("abcd").
<<"e2fc714c4727ee9395f324cd2e7f331f">>

> uef_crypt:md5_hex(<<"привет"/utf8>>).
<<"608333adc72f545078ede3aad71bfe74">>

> uef_crypt:md5_hex(["how", ["is", ["it"]], "going", $?]).
<<"eb89df06495cef83e3ec185aefe81d0e">>
```

---

### Module `uef_encode`

---

#### *uef_encode:html_encode_bin/1*

`uef_encode:html_encode_bin(Html) -> EncodedBinary.`

Takes argument `Html`, replaces some unsafe symbols with their appropriate HTML entities and returns binary.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_encode:html_encode_bin("<>&©\n™").
<<"&lt;&gt;&amp;&copy;<br/>&trade;">>

> uef_encode:html_encode_bin("♦±Σ").
<<"&#9830;&plusmn;&Sigma;">>
```

---

#### *uef_encode:html_encode_list/1*

`uef_encode:html_encode_list(Html) -> EncodedList.`

Works as `uef_encode:html_encode_bin/1` but returns list of binaries.

Examples:

```erlang
> uef_encode:html_encode_list("<>&©\n™").
[<<"&lt;">>,<<"&gt;">>,<<"&amp;">>,<<"&copy;">>,<<"<br/>">>,<<"&trade;">>]

> uef_encode:html_encode_list("♦±Σ").
[<<"&#9830;">>,<<"&plusmn;">>,<<"&Sigma;">>]
```

---

#### *uef_encode:win_to_utf8/1*

`uef_encode:win_to_utf8(Binary1251) -> BinaryUtf8.`

Converts *cp1251* binary to *utf-8* binary.

Example:

```erlang
file_1251_to_utf8() ->
    File1251 = "1251.txt",
    FileUtf8 = "utf8.txt",
    {ok, Bin1251} = file:read_file(File1251),
    BinUtf8 = uef_encode:win_to_utf8(Bin1251), %converting
    file:write_file(FileUtf8, BinUtf8).
```

---

### Module `uef_file`

---

#### *uef_file:read_file_info_fast/1*

`uef_file:read_file_info_fast(Filename) -> {ok, FileInfo} | {error, Reason}.`

Retrieves information about **local** file. Returns `{ok, FileInfo}` if successful, otherwise `{error, Reason}`. Works as [file:read_file_info/2](http://erlang.org/doc/man/file.html#read_file_info-2) but optimized for **local** files. This is a wrapper of:

`file:read_file_info(Filename, [raw, {time, posix}])`.

---

#### *uef_file:read_file_fast/1*

`uef_file:read_file_fast(Filename) -> {ok, BinaryData} | {error, Reason}.`

Reads contents of **local** file `Filename` and returns `{ok, BinaryData}`, where `BinaryData` is a binary data object that contains the contents of `Filename`, or `{error, Reason}` if an error occurs. This function is optimized for reading contents of **local** files, as no Erlang process is used. It calls [file:open/2](http://erlang.org/doc/man/file.html#open-2) with options `[read, raw, binary]`.

---

### Module `uef_format`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_lists`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_num`

coming soon...

### Module `uef_time`

coming soon...
